[DEVDOCS-5629]: [Update] Getting Started, API Rate limits update (#325)
bigcommerce/docs: docs/api-docs/getting-started/api-rate-limits.mdx

</Callout>

## Best practices

Manage API rate limits by following these crucial guidelines for success. 

Process rate limit status codes accurately, distribute request loads evenly, store results,  and repeat requests strategically to boost app performance and prevent outages.

### Handle rate limit status codes

<Callout type="info">
  As of January 2022, BigCommerce header field names are case-insensitive. Learn more about BigCommerce [response header conventions](/docs/start/about#response-headers).
</Callout>

API response headers show your position in the rate-limiting algorithm:

```http filename="Standard plan example: Rate limit headers"
X-Rate-Limit-Time-Window-Ms: 30000
X-Rate-Limit-Time-Reset-Ms: 15000
X-Rate-Limit-Requests-Quota: 150
X-Rate-Limit-Requests-Left: 35
```

#### Seeing a `429` response?

On receiving a `429` response, pause further requests until the quota refreshes:

```http filename="Example: 429 response" showLineNumbers copy
 HTTP/1.1 429 Too Many Requests
 Date: Mon, 03 Feb 2022 20:36:00 GMT
 Content-Type: application/json
 X-Rate-Limit-Time-Reset-Ms: 15000
```

> Use the `X-Rate-Limit-Time-Reset-MS` header to wait before retrying:

Reviewer: WDYT if we add also some info about the other scenario, for adaptive rate limiting we do not provide back the headers with the request quota information, it is just 429 error

# API Rate limits

> BigCommerce aims to provide outstanding platform reliability. To ensure dependability, we rely on rate limits for our REST APIs. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
BigCommerce aims to provide outstanding platform reliability. To ensure reliability, we implement safeguards in form of rate limits for our REST APIs. 
```

Just nitpicking, but to me "rely" is probably too strong word, like it isn't something we rely on for dependability solely.

> These rate limits enhance quality for merchants by regulating multiple API calls. In this document, we'll provide information on rate limits along with some best practices to put in place.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
These rate limits enhance quality for merchants by regulating excessive API calls. In this document, we'll provide information on rate limits along with some best practices to put in place.
```

<Callout type="info">
  BigCommerce recommends adhering to industry-standard rate limits when developing.
</Callout>

## How limits work

> Each API request consumes one quota unit. The system rejects later requests once it reaches the quota. This continues until the quota is refreshed.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Each API request consumes one quota unit. The system rejects later requests once it reaches the quota. This continues until the quota is refreshed after the reset interval.
```

All apps accessing the store share the store's quota. This prevents a single app from using the entire quota. The available quota for an app adjusts as other clients make or stop requests.

## Rate limits by plan type

> Apps using OAuth are rate-limited based on a quota that's refreshed every few seconds. The maximum quota varies by store plan and requested resources.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Apps using OAuth are rate-limited based on a quota that's refreshed every 30 seconds. The maximum quota varies by store plan and requested resources.
```

| Plan Type| Quota |
|:------------------|:-------|
| Enterprise and Enterprise-Test | by plan and [resource](https://support.bigcommerce.com/s/article/Platform-Limits#storelimits) |
| Other sandboxes (Dev/Partner/Employee) | by [resource](https://support.bigcommerce.com/s/article/Platform-Limits#storelimits) |
| Pro | 60k per hour (450 / 30sec) |
| Plus & Standard | 20k per hour (150 / 30sec) |

### Unlimited rate plan

The Unlimited Rate Plan is for some BigCommerce Enterprise clients. It has no request rate limits. But, it may face limits from physical infrastructure. These limits may cap the maximum request throughput for a resource.

 For more on resource constraints, see [object-related limits (Help Center)](https://support.bigcommerce.com/s/article/Platform-Limits#storelimits).

<Callout type="warning">
  BigCommerce can limit excessive API use to keep the platform stable. This is per our [Terms of Service](https://www.bigcommerce.com/terms/api-terms/).
</Callout>

## Best practices

Manage API rate limits by following these crucial guidelines for success. 

> Process rate limit status codes accurately, distribute request loads evenly, store results, and repeat requests strategically to boost app performance and prevent outages.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Process rate limit HTTP 429 status code accurately, distribute request loads evenly, store results, and repeat requests strategically to boost app performance and prevent outages.
```

### Handle rate limit status codes

<Callout type="info">
  As of January 2022, BigCommerce header field names are case-insensitive. Learn more about BigCommerce [response header conventions](/docs/start/about#response-headers).
</Callout>

> API rate limits regulate the amount of calls being made to your app. When the quota limit is met, you can use the API's response HTTP headers to find more information about your current rate limit status:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
API rate limits regulate the amount of calls being made to your app. You can use the API's response HTTP headers to find more information about your current rate limit status:
```

Reviewer 2: (not only when quote is met, all the time)

```http filename="Standard plan example: Rate limit headers"
X-Rate-Limit-Time-Window-Ms: 30000
X-Rate-Limit-Time-Reset-Ms: 15000
X-Rate-Limit-Requests-Quota: 150
X-Rate-Limit-Requests-Left: 35
```

|Name | Description |
|:------|:-----|

> | X-Rate-Limit-Time-Window-Ms | Shows the size of your current rate limiting window. In this case, it’s 5000 milliseconds. |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| X-Rate-Limit-Time-Window-Ms | Shows the size of your current rate limiting window. In this case, it’s 30000 milliseconds. |
```

> | X-Rate-Limit-Time-Reset-Ms | Shows the size of your current rate limiting window. In this case, it’s 5000 milliseconds. |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| X-Rate-Limit-Time-Reset-Ms | Shows the size of your current rate limiting window. In this case, it’s 15000 milliseconds. |
```

> | X-Rate-Limit-Requests-Quota | Shows how many API requests are allowed in the current window for your client. In this case, 25 requests.|

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| X-Rate-Limit-Requests-Quota | Shows how many API requests are allowed in the current window for your client. In this case, 150 requests.|
```

> | X-Rate-Limit-Requests-Left | Details how many remaining requests your client can make in the current window before being rate limited.|

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| X-Rate-Limit-Requests-Left | Details how many remaining requests your client can make in the current window before being rate limited. In this case, 35 requests.|
```

Not seeing an HTTP header in your response? Continue reading on to the next section. 

#### Seeing a `429` response?

> If you encounter a `429` response without an API HTTP header, this is an indication of the platform undergoing a load balance to prevent any downtime from happening.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you encounter a `429` response without the API HTTP headers, this is an indication that the platform experiences high load due to excessive traffic on a particular store and the request may be retried at another time.
```

Here's an example of what a 429 response looks like:

```http filename="Example: 429 response" showLineNumbers copy
 HTTP/1.1 429 Too Many Requests
 Date: Mon, 03 Feb 2022 20:36:00 GMT
 Content-Type: application/json

>  X-Rate-Limit-Time-Reset-Ms: 15000

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
 X-Rate-Limit-Time-Window-Ms: 30000
 X-Rate-Limit-Time-Reset-Ms: 15000
 X-Rate-Limit-Requests-Quota: 150
 X-Rate-Limit-Requests-Left: 35
```

You can use strategies such as using asynchronous processes, batching requests, and using a queue. They will help you distribute the load evenly. You can also keep a smooth request rate by adjusting the rate based on the API response headers.

### Caching results

Cache frequent results to reduce API calls.

### Retry requests responsibly

To retry requests responsibly when using the BigCommerce API, follow these steps:

1. Monitor for `429` Responses: When you receive a `429: Too Many Requests` response, it indicates that you've hit the rate limit.

2. Check the Retry-After Header: Use the `X-Rate-Limit-Time-Reset-Ms` header to determine how long to wait before retrying. This header provides the time in milliseconds until your quota resets.

3. Pause Before Retrying: Implement a delay in your code based on the `X-Rate-Limit-Time-Reset-Ms` value. For example, in PHP:

```php filename="PHP" showLineNumbers copy
 $milliseconds = $response->getHeader("X-Rate-Limit-Time-Reset-Ms");
 usleep($milliseconds * 1000);
```

> 

Reviewer 2: This is a good place to move content from line 70:
https://github.com/bigcommerce/docs/pull/325/files#diff-d2f1fa5aa0ab0a7a1e7fb819fd7c76acaa87881036fc61bf8a77eaf422dbbbd3R70

Author: I moved the content over so that it improves the flow. 👍

# API Rate limits

BigCommerce aims to provide outstanding platform reliability. To ensure reliability, we implement safeguards in the form of rate limits for our REST APIs. 

> These rate limits enhance quality for merchants by regulating excessive API calls. In this document, we'll provide information on rate limits along with some best practices to put in place.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
These rate limits enhance quality for merchants by regulating excessive API calls. In this document, we provide information on rate limits along with some best practices to put in place.
```

All apps accessing the store share the store's quota. This prevents a single app from using the entire quota. The available quota for an app adjusts as other clients make or stop requests.

## Rate limits by plan type

Apps using OAuth are rate-limited based on a quota that's refreshed every 30 seconds. The maximum quota varies by store plan and requested resources.

| Plan Type| Quota |
|:------------------|:-------|
| Enterprise and Enterprise-Test | by plan and [resource](https://support.bigcommerce.com/s/article/Platform-Limits#storelimits) |
| Other sandboxes (Dev/Partner/Employee) | by [resource](https://support.bigcommerce.com/s/article/Platform-Limits#storelimits) |
| Pro | 60k per hour (450 / 30sec) |
| Plus & Standard | 20k per hour (150 / 30sec) |

### Unlimited rate plan

The Unlimited Rate Plan is for some BigCommerce Enterprise clients. It has no request rate limits. But, it may face limits from physical infrastructure. These limits may cap the maximum request throughput for a resource.

 For more on resource constraints, see [object-related limits (Help Center)](https://support.bigcommerce.com/s/article/Platform-Limits#storelimits).

<Callout type="warning">

>   BigCommerce can limit excessive API use to keep the platform stable. This is per our [Terms of Service](https://www.bigcommerce.com/terms/api-terms/).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  BigCommerce can limit excessive API use to keep the platform stable. This limit is per our [Terms of Service](https://www.bigcommerce.com/terms/api-terms/).
```

</Callout>

## Best practices

Manage API rate limits by following these crucial guidelines for success. 

Process rate limit HTTP 429 status code accurately, distribute request loads evenly, store results, and repeat requests strategically to boost app performance and prevent outages.

### Handle rate limit status codes

<Callout type="info">
  As of January 2022, BigCommerce header field names are case-insensitive. Learn more about BigCommerce [response header conventions](/docs/start/about#response-headers).
</Callout>

> API rate limits regulate the amount of calls being made to your app. You can use the API's response HTTP headers to find more information about your current rate limit status:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
API rate limits regulate the amount of calls made to your app. You can use the API's response HTTP headers to find more information about your current rate limit status:
```

> # Adaptive concurrency limits

Author: Is this what we want to call the doc? @BC-ACherednichenko @piotrekkaminski

Reviewer: We want to avoid any details on the limiting strategy that we use, so I would not use `Adaptive concurrency limits` term at all

I think it is better to have "API rate limiting"

> BigCommerce aims to provide outstanding platform reliability. To maintain dependability, adaptive concurrency limits are applied to both REST and GraphQL APIs. These limits enhance quality for merchants by regulating multiple API calls. In this doc we'll outline how these limits work on the BigCommerce platform.

Author: Are we using "adaptive concurrency limits" as a replacement to rate limits? Not sure where to add the nomenclature if nots not intended to replace that.

Reviewer: we should stick to rate limiting, it is better to not mention words "adaptive" etc, these are internal details that are a subject to change

<Callout type="info">

>   BigCommerce recommends adhering to industry-standard rate limiting when developing. 

Author: Can we link to a source providing what the industry standard is?

</Callout>

## How limits work

Each API request consumes one quota unit. When the quota is reached, subsequent requests are rejected until the quota is refreshed. 
A store's quota is shared across all apps accesing the store, preventing a single app from using the entire quota. The available quota for an app adjusts as other clients make or stop requests. 

Try locating an API header using CLI. Use the `curl` command to find the rate limit for the endpoint in this example. 

``` bash filename="Example: cURL command" showLineNumbers copy
    curl -I https://api.bigcommerce.com/stores/{{STORE_HASH}}/v3/catalog/products
```

The maximum quota limit is returned in the API response header.

> ### API response headers

Author: I realize now, our endpoints don't have that information in headers. How will they locate their quota limits again?

| Plan Type| Quota |
|:------------------|:-------|
| Enterprise and Enterprise-Test | by plan and [resource](https://support.bigcommerce.com/s/article/Platform-Limits#storelimits) | 
| Other sandboxes (Dev/Partner/Employee) | by [resource](https://support.bigcommerce.com/s/article/Platform-Limits#storelimits) | 
| Pro | 60k per hour (450 / 30sec) |
| Plus & Standard | 20k per hour (150 / 30sec) | 

### Unlimited rate plans

  The **Unlimited** rate plan for select BigCommerce Enterprise clients is not rate limited by requests per time but may face physical infrastructure-related constraints that may limit the maximum throughput of requests for a given resource. 
  
  For more on resource constraints, see [object-related limits (Help Center)](https://support.bigcommerce.com/s/article/Platform-Limits#storelimits).

<Callout type="warning">
BigCommerce reserves the right to limit unreasonable API activity for platform stability, per our [Terms of Service](https://www.bigcommerce.com/terms/api-terms/).
</Callout>

## Concurrency limit best practices

> ### Handle adaptive concurrency limit status codes

Reviewer: we should not mention word adaptive, just rate limits
